***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: we use data structure to organize data in java and we use
algorithms to manipulate data in those structures

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: Traversal, insertion, deletion, searching, sorting, and merging

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: to implement back functionality in the internet browser

What is an Array?
Answer: a collection of similar data elements stored at contiguous memory location

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: Array is a fixed length data structure whereas arraylist is a variable length collection class

What is a LinkedList?
Answer: a linked class is an ordered collection that contains many objects of the same type

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer: an array is a collection of elements of a similar data type
a linked list is an ordered collection of elements of the same type

What is a Queue?
Answer: an interface available in java.util package and extends java.util collection interface

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: first in first out and last in first out are methods for handling
data structures where the first element is processed and first the newest element is processed last

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Describes the set of all algorithms that run at a certain speed

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The best case complexity is O(1) when element is first or last element in the array

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: the worst-case time complexity is the O(log N) this means as the number
of values in a dataset increases, the performance decreases

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: a tree data structure is a non linear data structure where data objects are
organized in terms of hierarchical relationship

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: a data structure for storing connected data like a network of people on a social
media platform

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: hashmap is non-synchronized whereas hashtable is synchronized

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer: hashmap uses multiple buckets and each bucket points to a singly linked list where the entries(nodes) are stored hashmaps makes use
of performing a jump to a specific value making the search time constant

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: occurs when we are trying to access any item of an array at an index which is not present in the array

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: using a for loop and copy elements, use the clone method, use arraycopy() of system class
use copyOf() or copyOfRange() methods of array class

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: bfs stands for breadth first search and dfs stands for depth first search
bfs uses queue data structure for finding the shortest path, dfs uses stack data structure

What is Recursion?
Answer: a method that calls itself is known as a recursive method

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: in linear data structures data elements are sequentially connected and each element is
traversable through a single run. in non linear data structure, data elements are hierarchically connected


Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
selection sort, heap sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, quick sort, merge sort

